today's video is sponsored by critical
vote critical vote is a free-to-play
hyper stylized fast-paced action brawler
game the cases that you place together
with a team or by yourself and you try
to clear dungeons quickly and
efficiently one of the best features of
this game is that the player progression
is completely geared towards your
playstyle so you can change how your
skills or your gear to basically fit how
you want to play the game the dungeons
are also designed to have minimal filler
so pretty much you login and you can
have a quick fun session without
worrying about it too much so if you
wanted to play a fun fast-paced action
game that you can play with your friends
or by yourself then critical review it
as the game for you to play so make sure
to click the link down below if you want
to download and play the game today with
that said thank you so much pretty girl
real good for sponsoring today's video
and with that sale escape back home with
today's video though I was browsing
through the internet and I got pretty
curious about if anyone has ever got in
a way it with actually cheating in a
Smash Bros tournament or if there's ever
it being anyone actually caught cheating
at a smash tournament I also know no
certain scenarios where people have you
know kind of just bend the rules a
little bit and I kind of wanted to talk
about the implications of that so with
that said let's get into it
about three years ago there was a reddit
thread on melee modification and
cheating a warning now in case you guys
didn't know people usually play on a
modded version of melee simply because
melee players like modified the game so
it fits more to competitive standards
now there was a reddit thread where
someone said mail is known for being an
unchanging static subpoenas pretty
incredible 15 years of eating
competitive plate too late I would like
to present something that should
honestly horrify and disgust you both
players determine organizers alike
there's been a lot of very positive
changes which in the community ever
since allowing mati however here is a
horror story and someone you may already
know origin has been the subject of some
PR shake ups in particular in the past
few weeks this newer player notably took
out several high-ranking PR players
using the character Picchu because you
didn't know it's not like an ultimate
where it's peaches one of the better
characters in melee peach who is often
considered one of the worst cactus in
the game by some plain Wilkins here the
worst comically known for being Lothian
and over a week Hector for competitively
so pretty much you grab a random player
comes in beats a bunch of highly ranked
players in his own region and playing a
terrible character so people got
suspicious right so this early shook up
the region quite a bit and also
generally out of region attention on
social media chases and our players
would lose it to Peter's yeah you lost a
piece you slug your trash whatever you
know kind of like you know people were
not being nice about it if you want to
you know put it that way
now bots of these victories
here on a region Facebook page and from
the upset things seem a little off
features new chillers team large as a
normal fair head similarly low and lag
and a chic fill and normally free ringer
on the picture of her downtown still
often you really see a comparator
feature so super interesting the way I
actually found out about this situation
was that dancehall battle in case you
guys didn't know this is the creator of
Doki Doki literature I cannot for the
life of me stay lit literature
literature
anyway the Doki Doki Club he's actually
a old-school smash player so he's not
only one of the main people that has
been you know contributing to the mail a
modest team and a lot of the training
packs and things that people train and
use in tournaments are actually directly
engineered and developed from death Club
he made this video
mailee player caught cheating using game
hacks my respond alone my name is dan
salvato and today we have something
incredible to talk about at a recent
melee tournament there was a player who
cheated by modifying game files on his
setup in order to buff his own character
this random dude that came in and was
beating everybody with pichu actually
found a way to include to pretty much
implement a hack into the game so what
people speculated is i he modified with
the memory card of the Gamecube console
or something of the sort and that will
buff and make teacher so much better
pretty much hacking at this point
cheating away and people wouldn't notice
because peach is such an underrated
character that people don't usually play
against the people couldn't really tell
if you cheated or not he took advantage
of this to win money at the tournament
I'm not kidding this is something that
actually happened and the melee
community is going crazy right now
people like dan had been modified melee
in many different ways to make the
competitive scene better for the for the
game when people started cheating and
all that one of the main concerns that
people had was like well this is why we
don't hack the game because people are
gonna start cheating right delicious
band modifications in general for like
five or six years there was a period of
time where people wanted to modify
mailing in different ways but people
were against the especially tournament
organises because people could cheat so
when they found out that this feature
player for more from this region was
cheating at official tournaments where
people were paying him to enter and it's
completely unfair right he was using it
to gain monetary advantage which is
completely off the line right I will say
the main part of the controversy wasn't
that this guy was cheating tournaments
but it was kind of like the implication
of like what if other persons or people
were cheating at major tournaments like
like Genesis Evo's you know are things
like that so that's
or the the lime got kind of muddled a
little bit so there's actually a couple
examples that people showed off of him
cheating that were actually really
interesting so for example here's the
video because there's actually a
playlist of this feature player look how
strong this for selected it killed
faucet seventy percent and you know that
not only did he increased the knock back
of a lot of his moves but he was also
changing the range of someone for
example this is one of the modified down
tells that he use as you can see this is
hitting weight after like for example
here's a detail of Picchu put this
hidden I believe this Falco all the way
over there and that made it look normal
for certain characters but certainly
enough for PG and here's like a couple
examples that I believe this is part of
the game code that people were showing
or something like that you know whatever
I'm not that tech savvy but apparently
that's some hard evidence no one changes
Picchu falls faster so like that means
that he can like do an aerial then land
faster lagless aerial moves landing like
reduce down till is 1.5 times longer
will hire a base knife right allowing
him for better combos this is actually
the best part of the hack this is
actually the part of like blows me away
the guy programmed it so the cheating on
the Picchu only worked on port force you
have to plug in it on the last port of
the game view port on the Wii cuz like I
was wrong when I said it was the king of
inertial in the week but that we can
also use game keep memory cards so at my
Lavina cheated might have being a cheat
cooker so like if i remember there was a
case where someone was cheating with a
memory court I might have been this one
actually I just can't get my people
straight for that one but regardless on
the player for you have to be
specifically player for and then you
have to pick blue Picchu and then you
have to hold L and left and plus down on
the left stick stuff reported by the
player in question dude that is so
sneaky that is this meatiest thing and
if you noticed all the bots of him
playing Pichu guess what player 4
every single one of these he's player
for blue Picchu it's actually
unbelievable unbelievable how far he
went for this is actually insane to our
knowledge this is the first recorded
case of in-game cheated by a player be a
game modification to Miller's history
looking back the signs for their display
will only play other people on his setup
people commented that BOTS look strange
overall the middle queen is very except
and interesting and we love it for that
so the suspicions of foul play were
quickly washed out a possibility under
the guise of player salt matchup
shenanigans or alright accusations of
discrimination against a newer player no
old could even think that someone will
try to cheat like this in the community
would be overwhelming majority of
players are very passionate about the
game itself very very shameful not that
you guys should be surprised but this
player was banned for life but that's
pretty much open the window where now
every time people modify melee there's
always that random chance we're like
eight what if someone is cheating and
keep in mind this is the only time where
someone has been found to be cheating so
there might be a possibility that people
may be getting away with it but we don't
know there's actually a really funny
little clip here from the smash
documentary where they talk about West's
illegal move for the home
for V game I'll beat him and you know
I'm gonna shake his hand and you want to
shake my hand and you told the totem a
holster for Nintendo of you cuz I was
going leave a moose oh my god ok so in
case you guys didn't know there's a
super wave dashing it's actually pretty
cool so here's an example people were
definitely like oh you're just genius
because it almost doesn't look real and
then Wes was also doing the extending
wrap over the grapple will basically
chase you away and the way you activated
it was like almost cheating these inputs
must be executed prior to the grapple
becoming visible then press the grab
button again but this time hold our and
when the end of the grapple reaches the
opponent's press a that actually looks
like cheating right like I don't blame
that guy's basically if you're like an
old-school melee play : in sindelle and
then sindelle said oh those moves pose
to be in there but nice and then the guy
says shut up that's way too funny so
there's a different type of cheating
that has happened in Smash tournaments
but this is a little bit different one
not the same one as like you know
modifying the game files and all that
but this is call mash splitting let me
explain right so smash has always been a
very poverty type of game so for example
let me show you what your typical brawl
local looked like back in the days we
have me to get for first place now for
second sailing for third and tie for
fourth I'm fifth and then X X is 7 and
guess how much money music it made five
six seven eight we have eight plays
right so that's $80 he basically won
four sets against the best players in
the world and he got 40% of the pot so
you know $80 of the pocket in Adana
entry fee so that means he made less
than $40 for doing all that
that's how smash sternum is we're back
from the base what people will do is
that let's say you had like really good
player a versus really gonna play a beat
people were just always pretty much
fighting for like money essentially
because like you know first place gets
like a hundred bucks and then second
place gets like 20 bucks they will grab
their monies together
$120 together now and then that will
split it evenly
he's 60 it doesn't matter who wins the
tournament they're both coming out with
$60 but they're still gonna play out the
same this actually became very common
and local smash tournament play because
it was always so poverty that people
didn't really make any money and usually
only the first place made money so
there's actually like a full Wikipedia
article here people talk about like
reasons for bracket manipulation
you know inflating their friends place
and obviously there's examples of people
doing it you know to let a friend have a
better place in and ranking some things
like that which is will mess up the
rankings it will mess up a bracket it
was done under the wraps so like a lot
of people didn't really know about him
here's some interesting cases of
Nashville in a pound fire there were
reported cases of high level players and
pools dropping I said to a friend as
simple as them to help them make the
bracket that's what people were like I
we need to get rid of mash split in here
yeah or like bracket manipulation the
most notorious East was ADHD
intentionally dropping a set to do him
in his pool which allowed doom to make
the bracket this in turn prevented d1
AOS who will have a band at ADHD
defeated doom as expected from a bent it
instead of caused a large debate and
where the one should be a friend and
willingly break him in able to help
their friend place higher or they should
watch it maintain competitive integrity
and sports machine those three and their
friends any other opponent this was the
primary focus of the pound fire were
soul straight on to plank revealed that
he wouldn't be paying out through the
winners that's actually another high
level drama in the smash community this
is a guy called plank right so plank
this is undulating by the way but it
almost feels like it fits onto this
cheating theme of the video right pound
was one of the biggest smash tournaments
ever made it was one of the biggest
majors it was the almost Apex ice at
some point pound 5 was very very
controversial so let me give me the run
then right so before 2011 plank was one
of India's most respected TOS as he was
the main tier for the pound series after
pound fight he drew significant
controversy after he announced that he
will be able to pay out the winners of
the term as do the financial issues he
came across my host this let's go back
to smash bores right here this is the
days of smash force so that you have
like all these people like kind of like
me to camp EPMD all these like super
high-level smashers he had to pay out
the price money from the entry fees to
the hotel because the he was expected to
sell out a certain amount of rooms
reservations from the hotel from people
attend a tournament but because people
were split in the rooms you will
basically have like 20 people stay in
one room then they didn't sell enough
rooms and then they also broke Paul
of the hotel so then Planck ended up
having like a 40 or some insane amount
of money depth so then he had to use the
money from the entry fees to pay out
that a aka he didn't have any money to
pay anybody so nobody got paid not
really play got paid no bro player got
paid and then planck went into hiding
for like seven years or something like
that he disappeared recently though he
actually came back into the scene he
actually paid out everybody he owed and
then the pound Sirius was actually
bought out from BG bucum I believe so
like Planck doesn't even run town
anymore
so pound is actually a legit her
mysterious now I came back recently it's
actually been some other scenarios of
tournament scamming players it was a
tournament called SNES if I'm not
mistaken it was this one I was called
the East Coast Regional circular stuff
like that it had a bunch of money here
this tournament was a problem because it
was also one of those tournaments where
like people in it and then you know it
was kind of one of those shady
tournaments if I'm not mistaken now keep
in mind I'm guessing this is trying to
keep in mind a lot of these events don't
even have any type of information about
them when it came down to this
tournament paying out the winners then
you know this tournament once again
ditched dip and then pay anybody they
say we out there's actually another
funny example of people kind that she
didn't a tournament I mean it's cheating
technically now in tournaments because
it's banned but did you intend on the
moon used to do this fun this funny
thing that is the thing is hilarious I
mean I wouldn't care if this happened to
me but also was mainly the look at the
player camera so basically what happened
is that the gene intent on the moon used
to play the same character so that what
play Fox and Mars so what they would do
is that there was switch controllers
between them they were basically playing
the other person's character so they
could basically switch characters
between a match or like for example if
it came down to one be one scenario and
one of them was more comfortable against
another another matchup then they could
switch off so that was actually called a
digit in Tendo and the moon strike where
they will switch controllers to gain an
advantage and that was this will
actually banned shortly after they
started doing it like a majors because
people were like wait hold on us
cheating but I still think it's
hilarious though but yeah guys these are
some examples of people cheating as
Smash Bros tournaments either the
tournament itself cheating you out uh or
maybe players doing some questionable
things or you know something crazy going
on behind the scenes for modifying game
files to you know breaking rules and
whatnot you know this thing has had a
couple things like that there's more
examples of this but let me know in the
comments down below
you guys want me to cover more things
but that's it guys thank you all for
watching so much I appreciate we should
have subscribe and hit the bell to stay
tuned where more videos and I'll see you
guys Ron in the next video bye bye
[Music]